I am a photon.
This photon arrives at the photoreceptor.
I enlarge, a succession of discs.
In these discs, I have opsin.
Let's take the example of rhodopsin.
There is a molecule attached to it called retinal.
It's a bit like that in space, these retinals.
The moment it touches, change in shape of this retinal,
it changes the membrane.
impermeability to sodium
and therefore a nervous flow that occurs
succession of cells to cells
like that all the time. Then it passes
the transduction is done
there is an influx
there it is transmitted now
to bipolar cells
if I lose info
I have my horizontal cells
and my amacrine cells that come again
to gather things
transmitted to the cells
ganglion, and then transmitted
it goes into
the optic nerve. So, the whole part
called
nasal, here,
crosses
and comes towards
the chiasm.
Whereas the whole part
external, here,
does not cross
and comes
from the same side.
Okay?
so what is peripheral
stays on the same side
now we arrive here
and there I arrive at what is called
the lateral geniculate body
so here is its arrangement
you see here we have what is called the fornix
the third ventricle
the caudate nucleus
The lateral ventricle, you see, we have the thalamus,
we have the putamen, we
have the lateral geniculate body, and that's the one that interests us.
So, this part here, the lateral geniculate body, receives
all the information.
Tac, I'm here, I receive a lot of info.
But now,
I'm going to start sorting this information.
So, the nerve impulse arrives at the lateral geniculate body.
And there, there will be cells called parvocellular cells,
magnocellular and kagnocellular.
The information arrives, you see, and there, there is a sorting in six
different layers
that will unfold.
divided into parvocellular, magnocellular and kagnocellular.
That means that this image, now, I will have to sort it
at the level of the lateral geniculate body by specific pathways that are
found here.
This is from the lateral geniculate body.
And each layer will give information.
And each system is called magnocagno-parvo.
It will make a system.
specific on-off
in relation to the information.
The color and the shape
for the parvocellular
and for the magnocellular, it's the
movement and orientation.
They are
able, hey, it moves or it doesn't move
not. It's big or
it's small, you see. And it's simply
on-off, on-off in relation
to this information. And so,
it starts to create a
shape, a color
with the different possibilities we have.
And then, does it move or not?
Look at everything you're doing right now in your head.
That means that the main role of the magnocellular
and the parvocellular is the integration of a shape,
shape, color.
The magnocellular will be more about movement and orientation.
It moves or it doesn't move.
It's big or it's small, it's simply on-off in there.
And kagnocellular will be more about past frequencies.
so it will give you space and spatial frequency
it arrives in there
so integration of all this information in on off
we can clearly see the image of the different crepes
that will be made
with the cagno, cagno, cagno, cagno, cagno, cagno
parvo, parvo, parvo, parvo, manio, manio
you see how it's arranged if you want
and that's a little bit
for example, just to
What I will have, how I will interpret an image.
If I didn't have, for example, one of these voices,
I'm going to see something like that, or something like that.
You see?
Well, it's the superposition of this and that that gives me this.
And this is parvo, magno, kagno that gives this.
You see?
And in addition, I could add in my magno,
if this face moves.
It will add on-off in the...
pixels they see. This represents
the thalamus.
We had seen that
the lateral geniculate body is in
relation with this area,
which is the thalamus, which surrounds
my third ventricle.
And what's on my third ventricle?
Do you remember the ligamentum?
The diaphragmatum of
the iliqueste.
And if I take the thalamus, it looks like this,
in fact, a thalamus.
And next to this...
thalamus, I have the geniculate body
lateral.
And the lateral geniculate body
will give a great
visual information.
This part of the thalamus that we call
the pulvinar,
it's again a whole lot of information
on-off, 2 billion pieces of information
per second.
This pulvinar, it receives
also information from the
superior colliculus,
of the pre-nucleus
of the olivary nucleus, of the optic tract
and of the suprachiasmatic.
80% of the information that has been processed by
the lateral geniculate body,
80% go directly into the visual areas.
20% go into the pulvinar.
And in the pulvinar, it is informed.
formed by a lot of other nuclei.
For example, the visual air, we go to what is called the optic chiasm,
optic,
we have the lateral geniculate body, and there, for example, you have the pulvinar.
You have the information, you see, that comes from the colliculus.
All of these are areas to integrate information in a much more subtle way.
You also have what are called the olivary nuclei.
are also, you see, this superior colliculus
superior, it will be, and these
olivary nuclei will be very important
because they will provide a link
with the information
auditory, and more specifically
with the vestibular nuclei,
and more specifically with the cochlea,
you see, and so they will
also participate by saying
hey, toc, I'm giving information,
what's happening at the same time with my little
cilia, there, you see, how is
my head, and so,
it's good, it's good, it's good.
this part, it's information
that is mainly auditory.
So, these 20%
that pass through the pulvinar,
will say, hey, there,
what information am I receiving
from your ear, there? Because I have to adapt.
What information am I receiving
from your specific position
at the level of your collimation,
at the level of your semicircular canals?
I'm already starting to receive
all the informative zones.
I have to process that, because the eye will...
it will go much further, it will have to adapt completely to that
for saccades, to come, if you read a word, look how it happens, my
saccades, my vision like that, my saccades, and then the orientation of my head, I
must
seek both verticality and horizontality, I must integrate what I
see, I go from very small to very large, I constantly go
from saccadic to non-saccadic
saccadic
You see, I do this, when I do this and I have to grab this object, all
the information that happens.
This information at the pulvinar level, it searches everywhere by
saying,
hey, we're going to study your file a little bit, you see.
We're going to see them everywhere, both at the bodily level, at
the auditory level, but also, it goes further, it starts to enter
also.
Now, in the system called the Papez circuit,
that is, we enter the memory system.
The eye will receive information from its motor unit,
but also from its entire neurosensory system, from its entire neurosensory program,
which will also have direct information on your entire posture.
viscero-visceral
with the information
at the level of bacteria, the information at the level
of cells, with all the
information at the level of your
because memories are stored
you see, and it comes back
in addition
in your
Papez circuit, and what is the Papez circuit?
the word to remember
everything that activates the Papez circuit
it's match
the mammillary bodies,
mammillarebosis, the anterior thalamus,
anterior,
the cingulate gyrus
and the hippocampus.
And in fact, the Papez circuit is a set
of structures that involve
memory phenomena.
That's where
I'm going to go look for
the little vial
of a dazzling pepper.
I might need it.
Maybe I can be served, that is, it's true.
I enter something and, hey, I'm going to pass here, we're going to close everything.
My visual cortex and the main form, it passes through my Papez circuit.
Hey, I'm not going back there anymore.
I'm not going to that cafe.
For example, you see.
The Papez circuit that goes all around,
which will check all your limbic info.
Because it's the limbic system.
All that also passes through there.
I take from the superior colliculus.
My superior colliculus, that's the taxes,
in relation to my ears.
Also, the olivary, it's your positions a bit in space, etc.
Okay, how are you?
Did you get your building permit?
You understand.
But it happens continuously.
And then, bam, your whole memorization plan.
And that's where it's...
very interesting, is that
not only this information
which are in its whole system are also linked
to the hippocampal system,
which will consolidate your memories.
We're going to think more about a good time
yesterday, you close your eyes,
it could be lunch,
or dinner.
You really have an image, you see.
It's amazing, you see.
Well, what makes you see this image?
You see, you see this image.
For the moment, you activate.
your Papez system,
you activate a whole network
neuronal, like that.
At the same time, you will associate
a taste of food.
For example, I'm here,
I'm thinking of a beer.
I see myself
yesterday, and I associate
the gustatory area,
and then I can start to remember
the noise there was.
Well, there, you...
You take to do a whole movement, on, off, tac, tac.
That is to say, we not only have the ability to interpret information directly,
direct,
but in addition, we store it.
It's incredible, what.
We store it.
You have visual memories, you have auditory memories,
you have sensory memories, you have active, non-active memories, etc.
Short-term, long-term, you store all that in there.
And in fact, it's just simply...
on-off, but since there are billions
of neurons,
there is room. What is quite brilliant,
it's as if there were no limit.
It has been integrated now
in the lateral geniculate body.
It still has to go back now,
in my visual areas, above
and below my calcarine suture.
We'll see again. It comes from the retina,
lateral geniculate body.
we receive a multitude
of information.
from the whole body
80% leaves
direct here
and 20% are completely
still integrated
and transformed into an image
specific with a memory
a sensation, etc.
But one thing that is very important
is that 80% of the information
that are here
go back up here
forward
and recondition your...
type of memory. So that means that when I receive information, you
only perceive
really only 20% perhaps of a reality. The rest is a
reinterpretation according to
your history, your emotions, your experience. You have a suture,
there, which divides
the occipital lobe into upper and lower, which is called the occipital lobe into upper and lower, which is called
the calcarine suture.
Ignon, and a little above Ignon,
a good centimeter, let's say,
I have another space
that appears, which is the calcarine suture,
which is the central point
of the information here,
with the different parts
that will come.
Your very central vision
will focus around here.
If it comes from the upper part
of the eye, it will go into the lower part.
at the level here, you see, and we see the different zones, so the fovea that captures
the central zone
will be found here at the level of the fovea, upper part, lower part, it
will integrate
in these different levels at the occipital level, so we call it areas 17
to areas 18 which
is below, you see, and you have all these areas, and then it will go towards...
specific levels called V1, integration zones, etc.,
you see, at the visual
level. It's the calcarine fissure, it's in the lobe itself. Then you have different layers,
from the
depth to the periphery, including a very important neuron called the
pyramidal cell, which
will transmit the information. This information that comes from the retina here, which arrives at
the level of the
lateral geniculate body. OK.
Rate, at the level of V1,
so visual area 1,
which will also have an impact
with visual area 2,
visual area 3,
it makes spaces, you see.
We have discovered now
about thirty already.
We know there are on-offs,
we know it's so integrated,
that there are memories that can be found
in the bone, that there are memories that can
be found everywhere.
We are starting
to discover a lot of things.
This integration will form
a pathway called the dorsal pathway
and the ventral pathway. This dorsal pathway
will go towards
the parietal or towards
the temporal. And this pathway towards
the parietal or the temporal, is that
it will recreate a schema in you
where when there is something, you will
create what is called the world of what
or the world
of where.
a world between the conscious and the unconscious. The world
where I will return to "where" and "what", "
how", "where".
And that, again, is a whole integration that will be redone to finish with the parietal lobes
and the temporal lobes.
That's really the finality here. Here, we have made a journey a little bit from the
retina.
Until finally, the two great dorsal and ventral pathways which are
almost a finality after having taken all this information, all this
integration of information that is found at the level of these neurons.
You've already noticed, I love it when we're on a train.
I try to really go there, like that.
And then the train leaves.
And then you say, oh I'm not going to move.
It's the train next to it that left.
Like it creates an illusion, like that.
In fact, we have...
we have a lot, all the time,
things like that. So, what is important
also, is this feedback of information
anyway, from these visual areas,
not only towards the
where, the what, but also towards
the geniculate body at 80%.
It's huge!
So, what do I perceive of my reality?
I will
continually interpret it
according to my experience,
and my emotions, my failures and my successes.
So, that's why at some point,
we can get out of this pattern by having a good intention.